README.md, before:

robotc-tap
==========

[Test Anything Protocol](http://testanything.org/tap-version-13-specification.html) for [RobotC](http://robotc.net). Basically a bunch of unit test helper functions, that outputs to the debug stream.

#How To

1. Click [Download Zip](https://github.com/ArtskydJ/robotc-tap/archive/master.zip).
2. Copy the `tap.c` file to the directory that you want to test.
3. Create a unit test file, maybe `test.c`, or `run_Tests.c`.
4. In the file, write `#include "tap.c"`.
5. Use the [Functions](#functions) provided.
6. Compile and run your unit test file.


#Example

```c
#include "tap.c"

task main() {

	tTest("the test suite works"); //5 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tPlan(5);
		tOk(true);
		tNotOk(false, "not ok ever!");
		tEqual(17, 83-66, "83-56=17");
		tNotEqual(10, 100, "ten ain't a hundred!");
		tPass("oh yes");

	tTest("this is the second test"); //2 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tFail("failing # TODO make this not fail");
		tFail("skipping # SKIP make this skip");

	tTest("the test suite works"); //3 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tPlan(3);
		tEqual(17, 17, "17=17");
		tEqual(10, 10, "ten ain't a hundred!");
		tPass("such win");
	tEnd(); //Only run this on the last set
}
```

#Functions

For a quick and dirty namespace solution, internal global variables and functions start with `_`, and user functions start with `t` (for test).

##tTest(string msg)

This starts a new set of tests, and resets some internal counters. This also ends the previous set of tests, if there was one.

```c
tTest("my function is awesome");
```
```
# my function is awesome
```

##tPlan(int num)

This sets the goal of how many test functions are going to be run in the following "set". ("Test functions" are the function in this module, not including `tTest()`, `tPlan()`, and `tEnd()`.)

```c
tPlan(12);
```
```
1..12
```

##tOk(bool test, string message)

This checks if `test` is `true`.

```c
tOk(bLcdBacklight, "the backlight is on");
```
```
ok 1 the backlight is on
```

##tNotOk(bool test, string message)

This checks if `test` is `false`.

```c
tNotOk(bLcdBacklight, "the backlight is off");
```
```
ok 2 the backlight is off
```

##tEqual(int test, int expected, string message)

This checks if `test` equals `expected`.

```c
tEqual(motor[MY_MOTOR], 127, "MY_MOTOR is running full speed.");
```
```
ok 3 MY_MOTOR is running full speed.
```

##tNotEqual(int test, int unexpected, string message)

This checks if `test` does not equal `unexpected`.

```c
tNotEqual(motor[MY_MOTOR2], 0, "MY_MOTOR is not still");
```
```
ok 4 MY_MOTOR2 is not still
```

##tPass(string message)

This is a test that always passes.

```c
tPass("yay this works")
```
```
ok 5 yay this works
```

##tFail(string message)

This is a test that always fails.

```c
tFail("that was predictable")
```
```
not ok 6 that was predictable
  ---
  got: 0
  expected: 1
  ...
```

##tEnd(string message)

This ends the *last* set of tests. Use `tTest()` to end any set that isn't last.

Commit message:

Added code and output "tags"

README.md, after:

robotc-tap
==========

[Test Anything Protocol](http://testanything.org/tap-version-13-specification.html) for [RobotC](http://robotc.net). Basically a bunch of unit test helper functions, that outputs to the debug stream.

#How To

1. Click [Download Zip](https://github.com/ArtskydJ/robotc-tap/archive/master.zip).
2. Copy the `tap.c` file to the directory that you want to test.
3. Create a unit test file, maybe `test.c`, or `run_Tests.c`.
4. In the file, write `#include "tap.c"`.
5. Use the [Functions](#functions) provided.
6. Compile and run your unit test file.


#Example

```c
#include "tap.c"

task main() {

	tTest("the test suite works"); //5 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tPlan(5);
		tOk(true);
		tNotOk(false, "not ok ever!");
		tEqual(17, 83-66, "83-56=17");
		tNotEqual(10, 100, "ten ain't a hundred!");
		tPass("oh yes");

	tTest("this is the second test"); //2 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tFail("failing # TODO make this not fail");
		tFail("skipping # SKIP make this skip");

	tTest("the test suite works"); //3 in this set [until the next tTest or tEnd]
		tPlan(3);
		tEqual(17, 17, "17=17");
		tEqual(10, 10, "ten ain't a hundred!");
		tPass("such win");
	tEnd(); //Only run this on the last set
}
```

#Functions

For a quick and dirty namespace solution, internal global variables and functions start with `_`, and user functions start with `t` (for test).

##tTest(string msg)

This starts a new set of tests, and resets some internal counters. This also ends the previous set of tests, if there was one.

Code:
```c
tTest("my function is awesome");
```
Output:
```
# my function is awesome
```

##tPlan(int num)

This sets the goal of how many test functions are going to be run in the following "set". ("Test functions" are the function in this module, not including `tTest()`, `tPlan()`, and `tEnd()`.)

Code:
```c
tPlan(6);
```
Output:
```
1..6
```

##tOk(bool test, string message)

This checks if `test` is `true`.

Code:
```c
tOk(bLcdBacklight, "the backlight is on");
```
Output:
```
ok 1 the backlight is on
```

##tNotOk(bool test, string message)

This checks if `test` is `false`.

Code:
```c
tNotOk(bLcdBacklight, "the backlight is off");
```
Output:
```
ok 2 the backlight is off
```

##tEqual(int test, int expected, string message)

This checks if `test` equals `expected`.

Code:
```c
tEqual(motor[MY_MOTOR], 127, "MY_MOTOR is running full speed.");
```
Output:
```
ok 3 MY_MOTOR is running full speed.
```

##tNotEqual(int test, int unexpected, string message)

This checks if `test` does not equal `unexpected`.

Code:
```c
tNotEqual(motor[MY_MOTOR2], 0, "MY_MOTOR is not still");
```
Output:
```
ok 4 MY_MOTOR2 is not still
```

##tPass(string message)

This is a test that always passes.

Code:
```c
tPass("yay this works")
```
Output:
```
ok 5 yay this works
```

##tFail(string message)

This is a test that always fails.

Code:
```c
tFail("that was predictable")
```
Output:
```
not ok 6 that was predictable
  ---
  got: 0
  expected: 1
  ...
```

##tEnd(string message)

This ends the *last* set of tests. Use `tTest()` to end any set that isn't last.
